# [DRAFT] Web Extensions Community Group Charter

*This Charter is work in progress. To submit feedback, please [file
issues](https://github.com/hober/web-extensions/issues).*

The Web Extensions Community Group defines [Web Extensions](#web-extensions).

  * This Charter: https://github.com/hober/web-extensions/blob/main/charter.md
  * Previous Charter: None
  * Start Date: TBD
  * Last Modifed: This is the first version.

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
## Table of Contents

- [Goals](#goals)
- [Scope of Work](#scope-of-work)
  - [Out of Scope](#out-of-scope)
- [Deliverables](#deliverables)
  - [Specifications](#specifications)
  - [Non-Normative Reports](#non-normative-reports)
  - [Test Suites and Other Software](#test-suites-and-other-software)
- [Dependencies or Liaisons](#dependencies-or-liaisons)
- [Process](#process)
  - [Community and Business Group Process](#community-and-business-group-process)
  - [Work Limited to Charter Scope](#work-limited-to-charter-scope)
  - [Contribution Mechanics](#contribution-mechanics)
  - [Transparency](#transparency)
  - [Decision Process](#decision-process)
  - [Chair Selection](#chair-selection)
  - [Amendments to this Charter](#amendments-to-this-charter)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## Goals

## Scope of Work

### Out of Scope

## Deliverables

#### Web Extensions

Editors:

  * Person 1 (Company A)
  * Person 2 (Company B)

The group will produce a Web Extensions specification, including the Web
Extensions API and the extensions and permissions models it's based on.
This specification will be based on the existing extensions model and
API supported by Chrome and Firefox.

### Specifications

### Non-Normative Reports

The group may produce other Community Group Reports within the scope of
this charter but that are not Specifications, for instance use cases,
requirements, or white papers.

### Test Suites and Other Software

The group MAY produce test suites to support the Specifications. Please
see the GitHub LICENSE file for test suite contribution licensing
information.

## Dependencies or Liaisons

## Process

### Community and Business Group Process

The group operates under the [Community and Business Group
Process](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/). Terms in this
Charter that conflict with those of the Community and Business Group
Process are void.

As with other Community Groups, W3C seeks organizational licensing
commitments under the [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement
(CLA)](http://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/). When people
request to participate without representing their organization's legal
interests, W3C will in general approve those requests for this group
with the following understanding: W3C will seek and expect an
organizational commitment under the CLA starting with the individual's
first request to make a contribution to a group
[Deliverable](#deliverables). The section on [Contribution
Mechanics](#contribution-mechanics) describes how W3C expects to monitor
these contribution requests.

The [W3C Code of Ethics and Professional
Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/) applies to participation
in this group.

### Work Limited to Charter Scope

The group will not publish Specifications on topics other than those
listed under [Specifications](#specifications) above. See below for [how
to modify the charter](#amendments-to-this-charter).

### Contribution Mechanics

Substantive Contributions to Specifications can only be made by
Community Group Participants who have agreed to the [W3C Community
Contributor License Agreement
(CLA)](http://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/).

Specifications created in the Community Group must use the [W3C Software
and Document
License](http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/2015/copyright-software-and-document).
All other documents produced by the group should use that License where
possible.

Community Group participants agree to make all contributions in the
GitHub repo the group is using for the particular document. This may be
in the form of a pull request (preferred), by raising an issue, or by
adding a comment to an existing issue.

### Transparency

The group will conduct all of its technical work in public. All
technical work will occur in its GitHub repositories (and not in mailing
list discussions). This is to ensure contributions can be tracked
through a software tool.

Meetings may be restricted to Community Group participants, but a public
summary or minutes must be posted to GitHub.

### Decision Process

This group will seek to make decisions where there is consensus. Groups
are free to decide how to make decisions (e.g. Participants who have
earned Committer status for a history of useful contributions assess
consensus, or the Chair assesses consensus, or where consensus isn't
clear there is a Call for Consensus [CfC] to allow multi-day online
feedback for a proposed course of action). It is expected that
participants can earn Committer status through a history of valuable
contributions as is common in open source projects. After discussion and
due consideration of different opinions, a decision should be publicly
recorded on GitHub.

If substantial disagreement remains (e.g. the group is divided) and the
group needs to decide an Issue in order to continue to make progress,
the Committers will choose an alternative that had substantial support
(with a vote of Committers if necessary). Individuals who disagree with
the choice are strongly encouraged to take ownership of their objection
by taking ownership of an alternative fork. This is explicitly allowed
(and preferred to blocking progress) with a goal of letting
implementation experience inform which spec is ultimately chosen by the
group to move ahead with.

Any decisions reached at any meeting are tentative and should be
recorded in a GitHub Issue. Any group participant may object to a
decision reached at an online or in-person meeting within 7 days of
publication of the decision provided that they include clear technical
reasons for their objection. The Chairs will facilitate discussion to
try to resolve the objection according to the [decision
process](#decision-process).

It is the Chairs' responsibility to ensure that the decision process is
fair, respects the consensus of the CG, and does not unreasonably favour
or discriminate against any group participant or their employer.

### Chair Selection

Participants in this group choose their Chair(s) and can replace their
Chair(s) at any time using whatever means they prefer. However, if 5
participants, no two from the same organisation, call for an election,
the group must use the following process to replace any current Chair(s)
with a new Chair, consulting the Community Development Lead on election
operations (e.g., voting infrastructure and using [RFC
2777](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2777)).

  * Participants announce their candidacies. Participants have 14 days
    to announce their candidacies, but this period ends as soon as all
    participants have announced their intentions. If there is only one
    candidate, that person becomes the Chair. If there are two or more
    candidates, there is a vote. Otherwise, nothing changes.

  * Participants vote. Participants have 21 days to vote for a single
    candidate, but this period ends as soon as all participants have
    voted. The individual who receives the most votes, no two from the
    same organisation, is elected chair. In case of a tie, RFC2777 is
    used to break the tie. An elected Chair may appoint co-Chairs.

Participants dissatisfied with the outcome of an election may ask the
Community Development Lead to intervene. The Community Development Lead,
after evaluating the election, may take any action including no action.

### Amendments to this Charter

The group can decide to work on a proposed amended charter, editing the
text using the [Decision Process](#decision-process) described above.
The decision on whether to adopt the amended charter is made by
conducting a 30-day vote on the proposed new charter. The new charter,
if approved, takes effect on either the proposed date in the charter
itself, or 7 days after the result of the election is announced,
whichever is later. A new charter must receive 2/3 of the votes cast in
the approval vote to pass. The group may make simple corrections to the
charter such as deliverable dates by the simpler group decision process
rather than this charter amendment process. The group will use the
amendment process for any substantive changes to the [goals](#goals),
[scope](#scope-of-work), [deliverables](#deliverables), [decision
process](#decision-process) or [rules for amending the
charter](#amendments-to-this-charter).

---

This charter was derived from the [Community and Business Group charter
template](https://w3c.github.io/cg-charter/CGCharter.html) which is both
[copyright](http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/ipr-notice) Â© 2016, 2017,
2018 [World Wide Web Consortium](http://www.w3.org/), ([Massachusetts
Institute of Technology</a>](http://www.lcs.mit.edu/), [European
Research Consortium for Informatics and
Mathematics](http://www.ercim.org/), [Keio
University](http://www.keio.ac.jp/), [Beihang](http://ev.buaa.edu.cn/))
and available under the [W3C Software and Document
License](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/2015/copyright-software-and-document).
